Date: 04 January 2013
Categories: categories/sysadmin
Summary: This took longer than it should have to get setup. For some reason, I could not find any references on how to get the dynamic zooming of munin to work. The documentation was not very helpful from the example provide (because it did not work) nor in ascertaining how to solve the problem. Anyways, here is my journey and configuration that will help me out the the future.
Updates:
    1:
        date: "10 April, 2013"
        desc: "Munin version 2.0.10 now includes better support for dynamic zooming out of the box"
    2:
        date: "14 Mar, 2014"
        desc: "Added information of how to debug Munin"
        

# Howto install munin version 2.0.8 with dynamic graphs on Centos 6

This took longer than it should have to get setup. For some reason, I could not find any references on how to get the dynamic zooming of munin to work. The documentation was not very helpful from the example provide (because it did not work) nor in ascertaining how to solve the problem. Anyways, here is my journey and configuration that will help me out the the future.

## Installation

### Yum installing

Because this was a vmware server on my laptop for testing munin, I went with both the node and the server installation.

    :::shell
    yum install munin munin-node

This provide you with some files, directories, and programs to get munin up and running. 

### Directory permissions

First thing you have to do is check to make sure the temp directories are allowed for writing:

    :::shell
    mkdir /var/lib/munin/cgi-tmp
    mkdir /var/lib/munin/cgi-tmp/munin-cgi-graph
    chmod 777 /var/lib/munin/cgi-tmp
    chmod 775 /var/lib/munin/cgi-tmp/munin-cgi-graph

## Configuration

### Munin.conf

Next ensure you have the following in your /etc/munin/munin.conf file:

    :::plain
    dbdir /var/lib/munin
    htmldir /var/www/html/munin
    logdir /var/log/munin
    rundir  /var/run/munin

    # Where to look for the HTML templates
    #
    tmpldir /etc/munin/templates

    # Where to look for the static www files
    #
    staticdir /etc/munin/static

    # temporary cgi files are here. note that it has to be writable by 
    # the cgi user (usually nobody or httpd).
    #
    cgitmpdir /var/lib/munin/cgi-tmp

    # (Exactly one) directory to include all files from.
    includedir /etc/munin/conf.d

    graph_strategy cgi
    html_strategy cgi

### Apache VirtualHost

Now comes the part where most of my time was wasted away by testing, debugging, then testing again. The Apache VirtualHost configuration for allowing dynamic zoom to work:

    :::apache-config
    <VirtualHost *:80>
        ServerAdmin webmaster@dev.example.com
        DocumentRoot /var/www/html/munin
        ServerName munin.example.com
        ErrorLog logs/munin-error.log
        CustomLog logs/munin-access_log common
        RewriteLog logs/munin-rewrite.log
        RewriteLogLevel 5
        ServerSignature Off

        # Rewrites
        RewriteEngine On

        # Static content in /static
        RewriteRule ^/favicon.ico /etc/munin/static/favicon.ico [L]
        RewriteRule ^/static/(.*) /etc/munin/static/$1          [L]
        # If it has the word static in the path, send to the static dir
        RewriteRule ^/.*/static/(.*) /etc/munin/static/$1          [L]

        # HTML
        RewriteCond %{REQUEST_URI} .html$ [or]
        RewriteCond %{REQUEST_URI} =/
        RewriteRule ^/(.*)          /var/www/cgi-bin/munin-cgi-html/$1 [L]

        # Images
        RewriteRule ^/(.*) /var/www/cgi-bin/munin-cgi-graph/$1 [L]

        # Ensure we can run (fast)cgi scripts
        <Directory "/var/www/cgi-bin">
            Options +ExecCGI
            <IfModule mod_fcgid.c>
                SetHandler fcgid-script
            </IfModule>
            <IfModule !mod_fcgid.c>
                SetHandler cgi-script
            </IfModule>
        </Directory>
    </VirtualHost>

## Debuggging

If you are having problems with Munin after installation. Here are some ideas on how to focus in upon the issue:

1. Running `munin-check` will try its best to identify any issues that the script and identify. It's not the best utility, but it is a start.
2. Next best thing is to turn on as much debugging as possible or run the 'munin-cron' for displaying output for more clues of problems.
3. Don't forget to also look at your virtual host logs as well.

Here is an example of my `munin-check` output with reported errors:

    :::shell
     [root@pg httpd]# munin-check
        check /var/www/html/munin
        check /var/lib/munin/cgi-tmp
        # /var/lib/munin/cgi-tmp : Wrong owner (root != munin)
        # /var/lib/munin/cgi-tmp/munin-cgi-graph : Wrong owner (apache != munin)
        ls: cannot access /var/lib/munin/cgi-tmp/munin-cgi-graph/*: No such file or directory
        # /var/lib/munin/cgi-tmp/munin-cgi-graph/* : Wrong owner ( != munin)
        check /var/lib/munin/datafile
        check /var/lib/munin/datafile.storable
        check /var/lib/munin/graphs
        check /var/lib/munin/htmlconf.storable
        check /var/lib/munin/limits
        check /var/lib/munin/limits.storable
        check /var/lib/munin/localhost
        check /var/lib/munin/munin-graph.stats
        check /var/lib/munin/munin-update.stats
        check /var/lib/munin/state-localhost-localhost.storable
        check miscellaneous
        Check done.  Please note that this script only checks most things,
        not all things.

        Please also note that this script may be buggy.
