Date: 10 May, 2012
Categories: categories/bash, categories/sysadmin
Updates:
    1:
        date: "30 Jan, 2014"
        desc: "Changed steps for using rvm with dedicated user."
Summary: The steps that I took for setting up the Nestacms with passenger, RVM, and Apache on a hosting server.

# Nestacms with passenger, rvm, apache

## Objective

To get Nesta to be served from Apache with Passenger.

## Summary

About a couple months ago, I came across Nesta which is really awesome and really simple CMS built off the Sinatra framework. But I could not figure out how to host the application with Apache. Fast forward to this evening and I finally found a solution. If you have any suggestions on how it could be done different, please post a comment as I would like to hear about it.

This is a great setup because it allows for being very flexible between ruby versions, gem version, and your application code.

## Build

So! you want to build it. Ok, here are the steps I did:

## Summary

 - Add a new user to manage rvm
 - Allow rvmuser to sudo to higher privledges
 - Open other terminal as root and install any packages needed
 - Switch shell to the user and install rvm as single user
 - Unpack application
 - Set permissions of application to be same as rvm user
 - Configure Apache files
 - Restart service(s)
 
## The installation

### rvmuser

All of the commands are to be used in the terminal and will, in general, be creating a dedicated user called "rvmuser" (but you can choose what ever you want). This is nice as the rvm software will not be globally installed and subject potential security vulnerabilities. **There is one part below where you might want to consider installing the passenger gem in the default gemset instead of inside a separate gemset if you would like to use multiple gemsets with multiple applications.**

    :::shell
    adduser rvmuser
    passwd rvmuser
    visudo
    (... enable wheel group to use root commands ...)
    (add rvmuser to wheel group)
    cd /apps/mysite
    chown -R rvmuser:rvmuser *
    su rvmuser --login
    \curl -L get.rvm.io | bash -s stable
    rvm install 1.9.4
    rvm use --default 1.9.4
    rvm gemset create nesta
    gem install passenger
    rvmsudo passenger-install-apache2-module
    exit
    cd /apps/mysite
    bundle install

### Apache configuration

Create the directory and apache files

    :::shell
    mkdir /etc/httpd/sites-available
    vi /etc/httpd/sites-available/mysite.conf

Apache configuration example. Take note of the `@nesta` portion towards the end which references your gemset.

    :::apache-config
    LoadModule passenger_module /home/rvmuser/.rvm/gems/ruby-1.9.2-p320/gems/passenger-3.0.12/ext/apache2/mod_passenger.so
    PassengerRoot /home/rvmuser/.rvm/gems/ruby-1.9.2-p320/gems/passenger-3.0.12
    PassengerRuby /home/rvmuser/.rvm/rubies/ruby-1.9.2-p320/bin/ruby  
    SetEnv LD_LIBRARY_PATH /home/rvmuser/.rvm/rubies/ruby-1.9.2-p320/lib
    SetEnv GEM_PATH /home/rvmuser/.rvm/gems/ruby-1.9.2-p320:/home/rvmuser/.rvm/gems/ruby-1.9.2-p320@nesta

    <VirtualHost *:80>
      ServerName centos
      # !!! Be sure to point DocumentRoot to "public"
      DocumentRoot /apps/mysite/public
    
      <Directory /apps/mysite/public>
        # This relaxes Apache security settings.
        AllowOverride all
        # MultiViews must be turned off.
        Options -Multiviews
      </Directory>
    </VirturalHost>